monologue: A dramatic speech by one actor.

music director: A person who is in charge of teaching the songs to the
cast and orchestra and maintaining the quality of the performed score.

musical: A play with songs that are used to tell a story.

off-book: The actor’s ability to perform his or her memorized lines
without holding the script.

offstage: Any area out of view of the audience. Also called backstage.
onstage: Anything on the stage and within view of the audience is said to
be onstage.

opening night: The first official performance of a production, after which
the show is frozen, meaning no further changes are made, and reviews
may be published.

play: A type of dramatic writing meant to be performed live on a stage. A
musical is one kind of play.

protagonist: The main character in a musical. The action centers around
this character.

raked stage: A stage which is raised slightly upstage so that it slants
towards the audience.
rehearsal: A meeting during which the cast learns and practices the
show.

script: 1) The written words that make up a show, including spoken
words, stage directions and lyrics. 2) The book that contains those words.
speed-through: To speak through the dialogue of a scene as quickly as
possible. A speed-through rehearsal helps actors memorize their lines,
and it infuses energy into the pacing of a scene.

stage directions: Words in the script that describe the actions of the
characters.

stage left: The left side of the stage, from the actor's perspective. The
same side of the theater as house right.

stage manager: A person who is responsible for keeping all

rehearsals and performances on schedule.

stage right: The right side of the stage, from the actor’s perspective. The
same side of the theater as house left.

upstage: The part of the stage farthest from the audience. The opposite
of downstage.

warm-ups: Exercises at the beginning of a rehearsal or before a
performance that prepare actors’ voices and bodies.

80

Music Theatre International + Broadway Junior™ + Director's Guide IBL65